adding norms mapping parameter docs (#9559)
opensearch-project/documentation-website: _field-types/mapping-parameters/norms.md

---
layout: default
title: Norms
parent: Mapping parameters
grand_parent: Mapping and field types
nav_order: 120
has_children: false
has_toc: false
---

# Norms

> The `norms` mapping parameter controls whether normalization factors are computed and stored for a field. These factors are used during query scoring to adjust the relevance of the search results, however, storing `norms` increases the index size and consumes additional memory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `norms` mapping parameter controls whether normalization factors are computed and stored for a field. These factors are used during query scoring to adjust the relevance of the search results. However, storing `norms` increases the index size and consumes additional memory.
```

> By default, `norms` are enabled on `text` fields where relevance scoring is important. Fields that do not require these scoring features are configured with `norms` disabled, such as `keyword` fields used only for filtering.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, `norms` are enabled on `text` fields, for which relevance scoring is important. Fields that do not require these scoring features, such as `keyword` fields used only for filtering, are configured with `norms` disabled.
```

> By default, `norms` are enabled on `text` fields, for which relevance scoring is important. Fields that do not require these scoring features, such as `keyword` fields used only for filtering, are configured with `norms` disabled.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By default, `norms` is enabled on `text` fields, for which relevance scoring is important. Fields that do not require these scoring features, such as `keyword` fields used only for filtering, are configured with `norms` disabled.
```

> ## Disabling norms on a field

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Disabling `norms` on a field
```

The following request creates an index named `products` with the `description` field as a `text` field with `norms` disabled:

```json
PUT /products
{
  "mappings": {
    "properties": {
      "description": {
        "type": "text",
        "norms": false
      }
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> You can disable `norms` on a field in an existing index using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To disable `norms` on a field in an existing index, use the following request:
```

```json
PUT /products/_mapping
{
  "properties": {
    "review": {
      "type": "text",
      "norms": false
    }
  }
}
```
{% include copy-curl.html %}

> Enabling `norms` on a field which has `norms` disabled is not possible. This will generate the following error:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enabling `norms` on a field that has `norms` disabled is impossible and will result in the following error:
```
